README.rst, before:

﻿===========================================
 WinDirStat - Windows Directory Statistics
===========================================
:Author: Oliver Schneider

Copyright and license
=====================
* Copyright |copy| 2003-2005 Bernhard Seifert (bseifert@users.sourceforge.net)
* Copyright |copy| 2004-2014 WinDirStat team (windirstat.info)

The application itself is distributed under the terms of the `GPL v2`_, but
parts of the source code are also available under more lenient license terms.

The documentation/help is distributed under the terms of the GNU FDL.

*Note:* you are not at liberty to upgrade the GPL version to anything later
than v2 at this moment.

The logo and all derivatives are available under the terms of the Creative
Commons license `CC BY 3.0`_.

Description
===========
WinDirStat is a program that allows you to find disk space hogs at a glance.
It achieves that by displaying a drive, drives or directories in a `treemap`_
that assigns bigger areas to bigger files and directories. Making those areas
visually separate by coloring and other means allows you to see literally at
a glance what the space hogs are and where to dig deeper.

The directory tree is simultanously shown as a treelist and as a treemap.
One can effortlessly gain an impression of the proportions on the hard disk(s).

Major features
--------------
* 3 views, Directory tree, Treemap and Extension list, coupled with each other,
* Built-in cleanup actions including Open, Delete, Show Properties,
* User defined cleanup actions (command line based),
* Language is English by default; further translations can be added as
  resource DLLs,
* Online-Help,
* A little setup.exe which installs the files and shortcuts.

Background
----------
The original author of WinDirStat was Bernhard Seifert and it was inspired by
`KDirStat`_ and `SequoiaView`_. Design and many details are based on KDirStat,
so WinDirStat is "a KDirStat re-programmed for MS Windows".

WinDirStat Alternatives on other operating systems
--------------------------------------------------
Meanwhile alternatives also exist for OS X and many programs make use of
treemaps for a variety of visualization needs.

The FLOSS_ alternatives for other operating systems are thus:

* `KDirStat`_ (Linux and virtually any \*nix that runs KDE/X11)
* `Disk Inventory X`_ (OS X)
* `GrandPerspective`_ (OS X)

We're not aware of an alternative for Windows at this moment, but

Logo
====
The logo_ was generously designed and contributed to the project by Robin
"tuqueque" Marín.

Contributing
============
The project Wiki on Bitbucket features a whole section on the topic of
contributing. If you don't agree on the requirements, feel free to contact a
project member regardless before you put any substantial effort into your
potential contribution.

Compatibility
=============
WinDirStat currently runs on all flavors of Windows, but does have some
problems on more recent versions of Windows (8 and later) that will be
addresses by a future release.

.. _treemap: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treemap
.. _KDirStat: http://kdirstat.sourceforge.net/
.. _SequoiaView: http://w3.win.tue.nl/nl/onderzoek/onderzoek_informatica/visualization/sequoiaview/
.. _Disk Inventory X: http://www.derlien.com/
.. _GrandPerspective: http://grandperspectiv.sourceforge.net/
.. _FLOSS: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternative_terms_for_free_software
.. _GPL v2: https://bitbucket.org/windirstat/windirstat/raw/tip/windirstat/res/license.txt
.. _logo: http://windirstat.info/logo.html
.. _`CC BY 3.0`: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
.. |copy|   unicode:: U+000A9 .. COPYRIGHT SIGN

Commit message:

Logo section moved, added image

README.rst, after:

﻿===========================================
 WinDirStat - Windows Directory Statistics
===========================================
:Author: Oliver Schneider

Copyright and licenses
======================
* Copyright |copy| 2003-2005 Bernhard Seifert (bseifert@users.sourceforge.net)
* Copyright |copy| 2004-2014 WinDirStat team (windirstat.info)

The application itself is distributed under the terms of the `GPL v2`_, but
parts of the source code are also available under more lenient license terms.

The documentation/help is distributed under the terms of the GNU FDL.

*Note:* you are not at liberty to upgrade the GPL version to anything later
than v2 at this moment.

The logo and all derivatives are available under the terms of the Creative
Commons license `CC BY 3.0`_.

Description
===========
WinDirStat is a program that allows you to find disk space hogs at a glance.
It achieves that by displaying a drive, drives or directories in a `treemap`_
that assigns bigger areas to bigger files and directories. Making those areas
visually separate by coloring and other means allows you to see literally at
a glance what the space hogs are and where to dig deeper.

The directory tree is simultanously shown as a treelist and as a treemap.
One can effortlessly gain an impression of the proportions on the hard disk(s).

Major features
--------------
* 3 views, Directory tree, Treemap and Extension list, coupled with each other,
* Built-in cleanup actions including Open, Delete, Show Properties,
* User defined cleanup actions (command line based),
* Language is English by default; further translations can be added as
  resource DLLs,
* Online-Help,
* A little setup.exe which installs the files and shortcuts.

Background
----------
The original author of WinDirStat was Bernhard Seifert and it was inspired by
`KDirStat`_ and `SequoiaView`_. Design and many details are based on KDirStat,
so WinDirStat is "a KDirStat re-programmed for MS Windows".

WinDirStat Alternatives on other operating systems
--------------------------------------------------
Meanwhile alternatives also exist for OS X and many programs make use of
treemaps for a variety of visualization needs.

The FLOSS_ alternatives for other operating systems are thus:

* `KDirStat`_ (Linux and virtually any \*nix that runs KDE/X11)
* `Disk Inventory X`_ (OS X)
* `GrandPerspective`_ (OS X)

We're not aware of an alternative for Windows at this moment, but

Contributing
============
The project Wiki_ on Bitbucket features a whole section on the topic of
contributing. If you don't agree on the requirements, feel free to contact a
project member regardless before you put any substantial effort into your
potential contribution.

Compatibility
=============
WinDirStat currently runs on all flavors of Windows, but does have some
problems on more recent versions of Windows (8 and later) that will be
addresses by a future release.

Logo
====
.. image:: https://bitbucket.org/windirstat/windirstat/raw/tip/common/logo_3d.png
   :alt: WinDirStat logo
   :target: https://windirstat.info

The logo_ was generously designed and contributed to the project by Robin
"tuqueque" Marín.

.. _treemap: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treemap
.. _KDirStat: http://kdirstat.sourceforge.net/
.. _SequoiaView: http://w3.win.tue.nl/nl/onderzoek/onderzoek_informatica/visualization/sequoiaview/
.. _Disk Inventory X: http://www.derlien.com/
.. _GrandPerspective: http://grandperspectiv.sourceforge.net/
.. _FLOSS: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternative_terms_for_free_software
.. _GPL v2: https://bitbucket.org/windirstat/windirstat/raw/tip/windirstat/res/license.txt
.. _logo: https://windirstat.info/logo.html
.. _`CC BY 3.0`: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
.. _Wiki: https://bitbucket.org/windirstat/windirstat/wiki/Home
.. |copy|   unicode:: U+000A9 .. COPYRIGHT SIGN
